I manually renamed the memphis image files

memphis gta is high in 2013 due to kia boys

homicide/murder
grand theft auto/motor vehicle theft
sexual assault/rape

robbery vs. burglary vs. theft vs. larceny

These change not only across cities, but across years within one city

results were bad with flash lite on images

there were still some errors with pro, but much fewer (this could probably fixed by sampling 5 times and doing majority vote)
- I saved a copy of memphis homicide csv which has an error

In some cities all sex crime is lumped together, in others its reported as separate types (e.g. memphis has just sexual assault, while LA has sex offenses (misdemeanor), sex offences (felonies), and forcible rape). Its also not clear if some incidents are double counted, i.e. is one instance of rape counted as both forcible rape and sex offences (felony)? For chicago there is no larceny. Should larceny be theft + robbery or just theft (the fact that other cities have larceny and robbery probably means that yes it should just be theft).

First create a pipeline for each city, then combine cities that use the same file type.
Then use AI later down the line to compare the table name

CSV - LA, Portland
PDF - Chicago, Washington
WEBP - Memphis

Data may also be presented differently. I.E. for some cities you can quickly get the crime totals for the entire city, whereas D.C. has it split up by district and the arithmatetic has to be done to get the city-wide numbers

data has to be extracted from charts and graphs for some cities as the data is not available in a clean table format

can I further breakdown the stats? i.e. for homicide can do a breakdown by the type of weapon used (that data is only available for some cities, washington has it in its annual report pdf)

provide some stats on the accuracy of the AI models and how good they are at reading images or extracting correct info from PDFs without hallucinating

even though I now think the unified pipeline is too hard to create there are plenty of other interesting uses of AI to discuss in this project
-optimizing pdf effeciency for example-https://openrouter.ai/docs/features/multimodal/pdfs#skip-parsing-costs
--the above is also a reason vibe coding doesn't work, there are some things it can't know unless you tell it

-- strip commas

compare the accuracy of querying many categories at once from pdfs vs querying one category at a time
--same for images

CHICAGO PDFS ARE TOO BIG????
--remove images and compress the pdf
--also remove pages that don't contain the string of the crime category we are looking for (but doesn't work for crime categories where chicagos terminology is different)



human data:
modifications in pre-process:
special instructions given for chicago (rape was changed to criminal sexual assault a few years in):
You may include crimes that are synonyms i.e. homicide and murder or grand theft auto and motor vehicle theft. Larceny should be the sum of theft and robbery. Sexual assault may also be referred to as rape or criminal sexual assault. Also the model was given the crime_categories.txt and asked to use that as a guide.

modifications in post-process:
homicide:
los angeles: criminal-homicide
portland: homicide-offences
memphis: murder

robbery:
worked for all cities

larceny:
chicago: I USED A COMBINATION OF THEFT AND ROBBERY BUT THIS PROBABLY WRONG (SHOULD JUST BE THEFT?)
los angeles: larceny-theft
portland: larceny-offenses

aggravated-assault:
portland: assault-offences

sexual-assault:
los angeles: forcible-rape and sex-offenses-felonies combined (what about sex offense misdemeanors?)
portland: sex-offenses

grand-theft-auto:
portland: motor-vehicle-theft
memphis: motor-vehicle-theft





aggravated assault for chicago is way off for 2017